History of the Great Lakes Invitational

The Great Lakes Invitational Tournament continues to be
the top holiday tournament in the country. Many have chal-
lenged the GLI’s stature, but none has matched its continued
success.
This year’s 57th annual tournament will be staged on
December 28-29 for the second time at Van Andel Arena in
Grand Rapids, with Alaska and Ferris State joining Michigan
Tech, and Michigan State.
The tournament was born out of a conversation between
then-general manager of Olympia Stadium Lincoln Cavalieri,
Michigan Tech’s legendary coach John J. MacInnes, and
Detroit Red Wings scout Jack Paterson. The three men were
discussing the lack of American-born players in the National
Hockey League and concluded that a prestigious collegiate
tournament could make a difference by promoting interest in
hockey among young athletes in the general public. American
Airlines vice president Jack Tompkins, a former University of
Michigan goalie and member of the Detroit Red Wings organi-
zation, championed their vision as well, and together in 1965
they founded the Great Lakes Invitational hockey tournament.
The GLI has grown into one of the premier college and
holiday sporting events in the country, originating at Detroit’s
Olympia Stadium. Michigan Tech, the host for the tournament
since its inception, added Michigan as a co-host in 1976 and
moved into the Joe Louis Arena in 1979 and Little Caesars
Arena in 2018. A tournament wasn’t held in 2020 due to the
COVID-19 pandemic and the 2021 event was a showcase with
Michigan Tech playing at Michigan and Michigan State. The
Spartans also hosted Western Michigan. The 2022 tournament
didn’t include Michigan for the first time since 1973 and moved
west to Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids where Western
Michigan took home its fourth title. Alaska will make its debut
at the 2023 tournament.
The GLI field is set for the next four years with Northern
Michigan and Western Michigan competing in 2024, Miami
and Ferris State in 2025, and Western Michigan and Notre
Dame in 2026.
As for attendance, the GLI is unmatched among college
hockey holiday tournaments. In 1999, the GLI went over the
one-million mark in total attendance.